when you sit down
when you sit down with a ruler considered carefully what
with a ruler considered carefully what
with a ruler considered carefully what is before you and put a knife to your
is before you and put a knife to your
is before you and put a knife to your throat if you are a man given to
throat if you are a man given to
throat if you are a man given to appetite do not desire his delicacies
appetite do not desire his delicacies
appetite do not desire his delicacies for they are deceptive food do not
for they are deceptive food do not
for they are deceptive food do not overwork to be rich because of your own
overwork to be rich because of your own
overwork to be rich because of your own understanding cease will you set your
understanding cease will you set your
understanding cease will you set your eyes on that which is not for riches
eyes on that which is not for riches
eyes on that which is not for riches certainly make themselves wings they fly
certainly make themselves wings they fly
certainly make themselves wings they fly away like an eagle
away like an eagle
away like an eagle toward heaven do not eat the bread of a
toward heaven do not eat the bread of a
toward heaven do not eat the bread of a miser nor desire his delicacies for as
miser nor desire his delicacies for as
miser nor desire his delicacies for as he thinks in his heart so is he eat and
he thinks in his heart so is he eat and
he thinks in his heart so is he eat and drink he says to you but his heart is
drink he says to you but his heart is
drink he says to you but his heart is not with you the morsel you have eaten
not with you the morsel you have eaten
not with you the morsel you have eaten you will vomit up and waste your
you will vomit up and waste your
you will vomit up and waste your pleasant words do not speak in the
pleasant words do not speak in the
pleasant words do not speak in the hearing of a fool for he will despise
hearing of a fool for he will despise
hearing of a fool for he will despise the wisdom of your words do not remove
the wisdom of your words do not remove
the wisdom of your words do not remove the ancient landmark nor enter the
the ancient landmark nor enter the
the ancient landmark nor enter the fields of the fatherless for their
fields of the fatherless for their
fields of the fatherless for their Redeemer is mighty he will plead their
Redeemer is mighty he will plead their
Redeemer is mighty he will plead their cause against you
cause against you
cause against you [Music]
[Music]
[Music] apply your heart to instruction and your
apply your heart to instruction and your
apply your heart to instruction and your ears to words of knowledge do not
ears to words of knowledge do not
ears to words of knowledge do not withhold correction from a child for if
withhold correction from a child for if
withhold correction from a child for if you beat him with a rod he will not die
you beat him with a rod he will not die
you beat him with a rod he will not die you shall beat him with a rod and
you shall beat him with a rod and
you shall beat him with a rod and deliver his soul from hell my son
deliver his soul from hell my son
deliver his soul from hell my son if your heart is wise my heart will
if your heart is wise my heart will
if your heart is wise my heart will rejoice indeed I myself yes my inmost
rejoice indeed I myself yes my inmost
rejoice indeed I myself yes my inmost being will rejoice when your lips speak
being will rejoice when your lips speak
being will rejoice when your lips speak right things do not let your heart
right things do not let your heart
right things do not let your heart envies sinners but be zealous for the
envies sinners but be zealous for the
envies sinners but be zealous for the fear of the Lord all the day for surely
fear of the Lord all the day for surely
fear of the Lord all the day for surely there is a Hereafter
there is a Hereafter
there is a Hereafter and your hope will not be cut off
here my son and be wise and guide your
here my son and be wise and guide your heart in the way do not mix with
heart in the way do not mix with
heart in the way do not mix with wine-bibber x' or with gluttonous eaters
wine-bibber x' or with gluttonous eaters
wine-bibber x' or with gluttonous eaters of meat for the drunkard and the glutton
of meat for the drunkard and the glutton
of meat for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty and drowsiness will
will come to poverty and drowsiness will
will come to poverty and drowsiness will close a man with rags listen to your
close a man with rags listen to your
close a man with rags listen to your father who begot you and do not despise
father who begot you and do not despise
father who begot you and do not despise your mother when she is old buy the
your mother when she is old buy the
your mother when she is old buy the truth and do not sell it also wisdom and
truth and do not sell it also wisdom and
truth and do not sell it also wisdom and instruction and understanding the father
instruction and understanding the father
instruction and understanding the father of the righteous will greatly rejoice
of the righteous will greatly rejoice
of the righteous will greatly rejoice and he who begets a wise child will
and he who begets a wise child will
and he who begets a wise child will delight in him
delight in him
delight in him let your father and your mother be glad
let your father and your mother be glad
let your father and your mother be glad and let her who bore you rejoice my son
and let her who bore you rejoice my son
and let her who bore you rejoice my son give me your heart and let your eyes
give me your heart and let your eyes
give me your heart and let your eyes observe my ways for a harlot is a deep
observe my ways for a harlot is a deep
observe my ways for a harlot is a deep pit and a seductress is an arrow well
pit and a seductress is an arrow well
pit and a seductress is an arrow well she also lies in wait as for a victim
she also lies in wait as for a victim
she also lies in wait as for a victim and increases the unfaithful among men
and increases the unfaithful among men
and increases the unfaithful among men who has woe who has sorrow who has
who has woe who has sorrow who has
who has woe who has sorrow who has contentions who has complaints who has
contentions who has complaints who has
contentions who has complaints who has wounds without cause
wounds without cause
wounds without cause who has redness of eyes those who linger
who has redness of eyes those who linger
who has redness of eyes those who linger long at the wine those who go in search
long at the wine those who go in search
long at the wine those who go in search of mixed wine do not look on the wine
of mixed wine do not look on the wine
of mixed wine do not look on the wine when it is red when it sparkles in the
when it is red when it sparkles in the
when it is red when it sparkles in the cup when it swirls around smoothly but
cup when it swirls around smoothly but
cup when it swirls around smoothly but the last it bites like a serpent and
the last it bites like a serpent and
the last it bites like a serpent and stings like a Viper
stings like a Viper
stings like a Viper your eyes will see strange things and
your eyes will see strange things and
your eyes will see strange things and your heart will utter perverse things
your heart will utter perverse things
your heart will utter perverse things yes you will be like one who lies down
yes you will be like one who lies down
yes you will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea or like one who
in the midst of the sea or like one who
in the midst of the sea or like one who lies at the top of the mast saying they
lies at the top of the mast saying they
lies at the top of the mast saying they have struck me but I was not hurt they
have struck me but I was not hurt they
have struck me but I was not hurt they have beaten me but I did not feel it
have beaten me but I did not feel it
have beaten me but I did not feel it when shall I awake that I may seek
when shall I awake that I may seek
when shall I awake that I may seek another drink